# Biblio
## Languages

## Competition
1. [Lichess][1], being a primary source, is a popular website where users can play chess made by Thibault Duplessis. It's a competing program in regards to mine as it is an open source multiplayer chess program. It is under the [AGPL license](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Affero_General_Public_License). Users can play games with random people, friends and AI. It also offers a coaching system where users can request help from excellent players. Further, users can make an account to track their progress. According to [Lichess source](https://lichess.org/source), it is comprised of many languages due to the differences in front-end to back-end code, but mainly Scala and Typescript.

    Comment: I plan for my to be open source as well as letting players play against each other. However, I'm not sure if making invites will be entirely feasible, nor an AI or coaching. While it isn't required for users to play on Lichess, I probably won't make an account system as some users are driven away from it. I probably won't be using Scala and Typescript, as I'm not familiar with the languages. A very specific confusion I had with the site was trying to play in a game I created, but this may be due to my unfamiliarity with it.
2. [Chess Multiplayer][2], another primary source, is a website where users can play chess. It has an online mode where a list of lobbies will be appear, which a user could then select one or use their "quick game" feature, as well as a local mode where one can play against a bot or another player on the same machine. The website itself is littered with ads, which is personally frustrating. the game itself doesn't seem to run very well. The website also features an "article" section, of which I'm not entirely certain is useful. There seems to be no way of seeing who made the website or what language it's in on the page itself.

    Comment: I could see the online lobby mode being more feasible than Lichess' invitation system, as well as the local two player mode, however I'm still unsure of making a bot. if users are wanting a bot, they can use Lichess or something equivalent. If it's randomization and ease of use, that's where my program comes in.
3. Written by Erik Allebest in Java, Javascript and PHP, [chess.com][3] is a more direct competitor with Lichess. As of this annotation, it has 216,000 people playing in comparison to Lichess' 41,000. As such, chess.com has a huge community in comparison. It has a very similar list of features on its sidebar to Lichess, only larger. This could be seen as a good or bad thing, of which I'm of the opinion that some features are unnecessary for someone just looking to play some chess. Similar to Lichess, it also features a coaching system where high-level players can offer their services to players seeking some sort of advancement. Also like Lichess, players can play online with other people, against a bot, in tournaments, with friends and chess varieties. However, one must make an account to play variants unlike Lichess, which i find to be strange.

    Comment: I believe chess.com features a bit more than it needs to, which could lead to users feeling overwhelmed. Specifically, its news section and its more section feels too bloated for a program designed for players to play chess. It is interesting to me though that despite all of its similarities with Lichess, it's written in a different language.
4. Written by Michael Zaghi, [this][4] is an article that focuses on a bunch of different chess programs and evaluates them on different scales, like the ui, features and community itself. I figured it would be helpful to get a second opinion on what aspects of these programs were successful and what were not. The author has placed Lichess at the top, with chess.com following, then a couple of others that I'm not familiar with. 

    Comment: What chess.com has that Lichess doesn't is the player base. It's not that Lichess doesn't have a decent following, but chess.com has a significantly larger one, which is worth noting in a program where you match up with others online. However, Lichess' more "streamlined" design seems to be more preferred as expected. A huge difference that the article mentions is that the extensive learning features both sites have differ in that they are relatively free on Lichess, unlike chess.com. Though it also mentions that chess.com may be one of the only chess sites to feature daily chess.
5. I'm including [this article][5] as I was interested in how these programs compare to mobile apps rather than online sites. The writer of the article, kit_carmelite, mentions that a variety of features on Lichess' site are missing on the mobile app version. While this isn't necessarily reason enough to discourage me from making an app, perhaps some of these features are more difficult to implement on such a medium. The article then extensively covers Lichess as a site. Based on this and my lack of experience with mobile apps, I probably will refrain from making an app.

[1]: https://lichess.org/
[2]: https://www.chessmultiplayer.com/
[3]: https://www.chess.com/
[4]: https://medium.com/getting-into-chess/the-best-websites-to-play-online-chess-in-2021-e6c7c6e2430e
[5]: https://medium.com/getting-into-chess/lichess-features-on-browser-lacking-on-mobile-app-1774736a36f3